EXPT.NO
1(A)

STEPS TO ENSURE SECURITY OF ANY ONE WEB
BROWSER (MOZILLA FIREFOX/GOOGLE CHROME)

DATE:

AIM:
The main aim is to study the steps to ensure security of any one web browser
(Mozilla Firefox/Google chrome).
PROCEDURE:
1. Configure privacy and security settings
The point here is to disable features that can cause vulnerabilities introduced through
third-party cookies as well as plug-ins, add-ons and extensions. The fewer of these features you
enable, the less likely they are to be exploited by hackers.
2. Choose your warnings
Disabling features helps secure computers but also potentially prevents users from getting
at resources they might need. For instance, cookies help load pages faster at often-visited
websites but they can also direct users into compromised sites. To prevent that, set up
cookie warnings so users are alerted before navigating to unknown sites. Don’t save
passwords
Allowing browsers to save passwords may be convenient but creates security risks. Malware
that captures keystrokes can steal the information. Also, if a laptop falls into the wrong hands, it
doesn’t take much for a savvy hacker to find the stored password information.
4. Select plug-ins carefully
Java, Flash, JavaScript, ActiveX and myriad other plug-ins have all been exploited by
hackers to break into computers and networks. Use these only if you have a reason to; otherwise,
disable them.
5. Update browsers regularly
Browsers, just like any other software, need to be updated regularly to plug security holes.
Out-of-date software is a favorite way for hackers to break into networks. Updates not only
address security but also make browsers run better.


6. Install and update endpoint security
Robust endpoint security is an absolute necessity. Threats that can elude browser privacy
settings can still be blocked by an endpoint security solution that helps prevent ransomware and
other types of malware, and detects zero-day threats.

Firefox hacks and tips for better security
● If you use Mozilla Firefox and want to improve your browser security settings, press the
hamburger menu in the top right corner and go to “Options”.

In the “General” tab, at the Downloads section, press “Always asks me where to save files”.
This way, you won’t have a web location try to automatically save dangerous content to your
computer.



At the same time, this gives you the option to place suspicious content in a safe location
where you can analyze it afterwards.
Next, go to the Privacy tab.

At the “Tracking” section press the blue text with “manage your Do Not Track settings”
and check “Always apply do not track”.
After you do this advertising, commerce and various other sites shouldn’t be able to track
you across the web. While in the Privacy tab, at the “History” section, choose

 “Firefox will never remember history”.
This is especially important if you know your device may be used by other people.
For a more detailed control of your history section, select “Use custom settings for history”.
Check “Always use private browsing mode” so every time you close your Firefox browser it will
clear browsing history, search results, cookies and download history. The last changes you should
make in Firefox can be found in the “Security” category.

First, make sure all of the four check boxes in the General section are checked in.
This ensures that your browser will inform you whenever websites try to install malicious
add-ons and other content. In the “Logins” section you can set up a Master Password.




Doing this is especially useful when multiple people have access to the computer, since it
asks you introduce a master password before you can access logins. This way, other people won’t
be able to access your important accounts such as email. Once more, we cannot recommend this
enough, but don’t let your

RESULT:
The detail studies of the steps to ensure security of any one web browser (mozilla
firefox/google chrome) is completed successfully



EXPT.NO
1(B)

GATHERING INFORMATION USING WINDOWS
COMMAND LINE UTILITIES

DATE:

AIM:
The main aim is to gather the information using windows command line utilities.
PROCEDURE:
Consider a network where you have access to a windows PC connected to the
Internet.
Using Windows –based tools, lets gather some information about the target. You
can ask any target domain or IP address, in our case, we are using example.com as a target.

Figure: Topology Diagram
1) Open Windows Command Line (cmd) from Windows PC.
2) Enter the Command “ping yahoo.com” to ping.

3) From the Output you can Observe and extract the following Information:
● yahoo.com is live





●
●
●
●

IP address of yahoo.com
Round trip time
TTL Value
Packet Loss Statistics

4) Now, enter the command “ping yahoo.com –f -l 1500” to check the value of fragmentation.

• Ping: a command to determine the connectivity between your computer and a
particular address (within the Local network or the internet).
• URL or local address: the web address or the IP address of the server you’re trying
to check for speed connectivity.
• -f : a command to make sure that when you ping a certain address, it will not
fragment the packet sent or received.
• -l : a command commonly known as a packet size switch. This is the best command
to help you determine the best MTU size for your network.
Here are the results that you may get after doing the ping test:
• Four replies received: This means that the packet size entered is either within or the
actual MTU size used within your network.
• Destination net unreachable: This means that there was no path or route to the
destination or the address.
• Request Timed Out: This means that within the default wait time period (1 second),
there was no response.
• Packet needs to be fragmented but DF set: This means that the packet size you entered
is too high for your MTU value.
RESULT:
The detail studies of the steps to gather information about the target is completed
successfully

12



EXPT.NO
2(a)

PASSWORD CRACKING ON AN AUTHORIZED

DATE:

MS EXCEL DOCUMENT

AIM:
The main aim is to open an authorized ms excel document by password cracking.

PROCEDURE:
Step 1: Open the MS EXCEL by clicking start menu icon in the task bar.

Step 2: Create an any highly official document (example: student mark sheet, EMP salary,
ECT….)

13



Step 3: Save the MS EXCEL document with a file name and with the extension of .xsls

Step 4: Protect your document with a password by selecting review tab and choose protect
sheet. Assign a password

14



Step 5: Enable all the alignment edition option so therefore one can edit out official
document. Select ok

STEP 6: An d re-enter the password to conform the password

15



Step 7: Now check if the editing is possible in our official document. If we try to change
any this will display that this document is protected by password

Step 8: Save the document in a new folder or in a desktop

16



Step 9: Select the file and change the extension as .zip or right click on the file select the
properties form the pop-up menu and change the extension of the document otherwise right click
on the file select open with and choose winRAR. The .xsls file is changed to .zip

Step 10: Open the zip file by double click (or) right click and open

17



Step 11: Open the xs folder by double click (or) right click and open

Step 12: Select the worksheet folder by double click (or) right click and open

18



Step 13: Open the sheet1 were our official document get present

Step14: Select the password portion and delete it

19



Step15: Finally save the document by selecting yes option

Step 16: Select yes to update the changes in the file

20



Step 17: Close the entire tab

STEP 18: Again change the .zip format file to .xslx format

Step 19: The file again turned to .xslx format

21


Step 20: Now the document unprotected and hacker can able to edit the official data

RESULT:
The main aim is to open an authorized ms excel document by password cracking is
completed successfully.

22



EXPT.NO
2(B)

SCANNING THE SYSTEM VULNERABILITIES USING DATE:
MICROSOFT BASELINE SECURITY ANALYZER (MBSA)
TOOL

AIM:
The main aim is to scan the system vulnerabilities using Microsoft baseline security
analyzer (MBSA)

PROCEDURE:
● Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer (MBSA) is used to verify patch compliance. MBSA
also performed several other security checks for Windows, IIS, and SQL Server.
● Unfortunately, the logic behind these additional checks had not been actively maintained
since Windows XP and Windows Server 2003.
● Changes in the products since then rendered many of these security checks obsolete and
some of their recommendations counterproductive.
● MBSA was largely used in situations where neither Microsoft Update nor a local WSUS or
Configuration Manager server was available, or as a compliance tool to ensure that all
security updates were deployed to a managed environment.
● While MBSA version 2.3 introduced supports for Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows
8.1, it has since been deprecated and no longer developed. MBSA 2.3 is not updated to fully
support Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016.

Step 1: download the Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer (MBSA)

23



Step2: start and install the Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer (MBSA) click next to start install

24



Step3: choose the location to install MBSA

STEP 4:click the scan a computer to start the MBSA

25



Step 5: provide the IP address and click start scan

Step 7: The scanning process is GET STARTED

STEP 8: The detail report is generated for the system

26



Result about the administrative vulnerabilities

Result about the additional system information, IIS scans result, desktop application

And also we can view the existing scan report

27



RESULT:
The main aim is to scan the system vulnerabilities using Microsoft baseline security
analyzer (MBSA) is completed successfully.

28

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

EXPT.NO
3(a)

Study of Cyber Forensic Tools.

DATE:

EXPT.NO
3(B)

COMPARISON OF TWO FILES FOR FORENSICS
INVESTIGATION BY COMPARE IT TOOL

DATE:

AIM:
The main aim is to comparison of two files for forensics investigation by
COMPARE IT tool.

PROCEDURE:
● COMPARE IT is software that displays 2 files side by side, with colored differences sections
to simplify analyzing. You can move changes between files with a single mouse click or
keystroke, and of course, you have the ability to edit files directly in comparison window.
● It can make colored printout of differences report, exactly as it’s on the screen. First of all,
install the Compare It from the Link given below. http://www.grigsoft.com/wincmp3.htm it
is a 1.7 Mb Software package Click on Compare It Tool, It will show a window to select the
files to be compared.
● First, select the first file and click on open and then select the second file and click on open.
STEP 1: open the notepad and create a first text file with the extension .txt and save with a
file name

Step 2: create a second text file with the extension .txt

29

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 4: Download the compare it tool install the Compare It from the Link given below.
http://www.grigsoft.com/wincmp3.htm it is a 1.7 Mb Software package Click on Compare It Tool,
It will show a window to select the files to be compared.
Step 5: Upload the first file to the compare it tool

Step 6: upload the second file to the compare it tool

30

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 7: Displays 2 files side by side, with colored differences sections to simplify analyzing.
You can move changes between files with a single mouse click or keystroke

STEP 8: It also gives you Print report of the difference in the file as follows

31

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

STEP 9: the comparison result is get display.

RESULT:
The main aim is to comparison of two files for forensics investigation by
COMPARE IT tool is executed successfully.

32

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

EXPT.NO
4(A)

Analyze the Port vulnerability of the system using NMAP to
ensure security in Apache Server

DATE:

AIM:
The main aim is to scan the port using nmap in Apache server.

PROCEDURE:
NMAP Tool:
Nmap provides a number of features for probing computer networks, including host discovery
and service and operating system detection. These features are extensible by scripts that provide
more advanced service detection, vulnerability detection, and other features. Nmap can adapt to
network conditions including latency and congestion during a scan.

Nmap features include:
●
●
●
●

●

Host discovery – Identifying hosts on a network. For example, listing the hosts that
respond to TCP and/or ICMP requests or have a particular port open.
Port scanning – Enumerating the open ports on target hosts.
Version detection – Interrogating network services on remote devices to determine
application name and version number.
TCP/IP stack fingerprinting – Determining the operating system and hardware
characteristics of network devices based on observations of network activity of said
devices.
Scriptable interaction with the target – using Nmap Scripting Engine] (NSE) and Lua
programming language.

STEP 1 : Start the Virtual Machine and launch Kali Linux.

STEP 2 : open the terminal

STEP 3 : Stop the previously running Apache server (if any) using the code
sudo systemctl stop apache2

33

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

STEP 4 : Now, using the following code, start the Apache server.
sudo systemctl start apache2

STEP 5 : Use NMAP to scan the current working system's IP address for any open ports.

STEP 6 : Analyze the output and the services that are running on that IP address.

STEP 7 : Close the Apache server using the code below.

34

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

sudo systemctl stop apache2

RESULT:
The main aim is to scan the port using nmap in Apache server is successfully completed.

35

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

EXPT.NO
4(B)

STEGANOGRAPHY - HIDING AND RECOVERING
THE INFORMATION USING
QUICKSTEGO TOOL

DATE

AIM:
The main aim is to hide and recover the information using QUICKSTEGO TOOL.

PROCEDURE:
● Steganography is the science of writing hidden messages in such a way that no one apart
from the sender and intended recipient even realizes there is a hidden message.
● QuickStego lets you hide text in pictures so that only other users of QuickStego can retrieve
and read the hidden secret messages. Once text is hidden in an image the saved picture is
still a 'picture', it will load just like any other image and appear as it did before.
Step 1 : Download the QuickStego tool
Step 2 : Install the QuickStego tool and launch the desktop icon
Step 3 : Open the QuickStego application

36

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 4 : Create a text file or otherwise directly we can give the text data here we are creating a
secrete text file with the extension .txt to upload in the image

Step 5 : upload the image file to the QuickStego application

37

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 6: Upload the text file to the QuickStego application

38

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 7 : Click hide text to hide the text document to image

Step 8 : Click save image to upload the secret data to image a new image file is created and saved
Step 9: Now close the stego application and open it again
Step 10 : Now open the newly saved image and click the Get Text

RESULT:
The main aim is to hide and recover the information using QUICKSTEGO TOOL
is completed successfully.

39

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

EXPT.NO
5(a)

WRITE A PROGRAM TO ILLUSTRATE BUFFER
OVERFLOW ATTACK

DATE:

AIM:
The main aim is to write a program to illustrate buffer overflow attack.

PROCEDURE:
A buffer overflow (or buffer overrun) occurs when the volume of data exceeds the storage
capacity of the memory buffer. ... If the transaction overwrites executable code, it can cause
the program to behave unpredictably and generate incorrect results, memory access errors,
or crashes.
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
int main(void)
{
char buff[15];
int pass = 0;
printf("\n Enter the password : \n");
gets(buff);
if(strcmp(buff, "thegeekstuff"))
{
printf ("\n Wrong Password \n");
}
else
{
printf ("\n Correct Password \n");
pass = 1;
}

40

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

if(pass)
{
/* Now Give root or admin rights to user*/
printf ("\n Root privileges given to the user \n");
}
return 0;
}

The program above simulates scenario where a program expects a password from user
and if the password is correct then it grants root privileges to the user.
Let’s the run the program with correct password ie ‘thegeekstuff’ :

OUTPUT
RUN1
Enter the password :
thegeekstuff
Correct Password
Root privileges given to the user
This works as expected. The passwords match and root privileges are given.But do you
know that there is a possibility of buffer overflow in this program. The gets() function does not
check the array bounds and can even write string of length greater than the size of the buffer to
which the string is written. Now, can you even imagine what can an attacker do with this kind of
a loophole?
Here is an example :
RUN 2
Enter the password :
hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh

41

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Wrong Password
Root privileges given to the user

RESULT:
The main aim is to write a program to illustrate buffer overflow attack is completed
successfully.

42

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

EXPT.NO
5(b)

Implement a versatile hacking tool - Hashcat Tool for cracking
the password.

AIM:
The main aim is to crack the password using Hashcat Tool

PROCEDURE:
Hashcat is a password cracking tool used for licit and illicit purposes.
Hashcat is a particularly fast, efficient, and versatile hacking tool that assists brute-force attacks
by conducting them with hash values of passwords that the tool is guessing or applying
It gives the user the ability to brute-force credential stores using known hashes, to conduct
dictionary attacks and rainbow tables, and to reverse engineer readable information on user
behavior into hashed-password combination attacks.

It supports a wide range of hashing algorithms including MD5, SHA-1, SHA-2, and more.
Hashcat works by using the power of a computer's GPU to test millions of passwords per second.
It can also utilize multiple GPUs or even cluster-based processing for even faster
password cracking.

Step1 : Open the hash file with the cat command, which will display the hash
Cat file.txt

Step 2: Use the hashcat tool to crack the password.

NOTE: For this you will need a file for a dictionary attack to perform brute force
Credential check.

Step 3: write the following command for crackin g the password using hash
Hashcat -m 0 hashfile.txt rockyou.txt

43

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

NOTE : If the above command doesn’t work try the following command
Hashcat -m 0 –show hashfile.txt rockyou.txt

RESULT:
The main aim to crack the password using Hashcat Tool is successful

44

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

EXPT.NO
6(A)

DOWNLOADING A WEBSITE USING WEBSITE
COPIER TOOL(HTTRACK)

DATE:

AIM:
The main aim is to downloading a website using website copier tool (HTTtack)

PROCEDURE:
● HTTrack is a free (GPL, libre/free software) and easy-to-use offline browser utility.
● It allows you to download a World Wide Web site from the Internet to a local directory,
building recursively all directories, getting HTML, images, and other files from the server
to your computer.
● HTTrack arranges the original site's relative link-structure.
● Simply open a page of the "mirrored" website in your browser, and you can browse the site
from link to link, as if you were viewing it online.
● HTTrack can also update an existing mirrored site, and resume interrupted downloads.
HTTrack is fully configurable, and has an integrated help system.
● WinHTTrack is the Windows (from Windows 2000 to Windows 10 and above) release of
HTTrack, and WebHTTrack the Linux/Unix/BSD release.
STEP 1: Install WinHTTrack

45

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

STEP 2: Create a folder on the Desktop and rename the folder name.
For Example: Folder name is “Dayananda Sagar Website”.
Open the folder “Dayananda Sagar Website”. The content of the folder is empty.

STEP 3: Select the new project from the file menu.

46

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

STEP 3: Enter the project name in new project field: Example: Website hacking

Step 4: Give the path where you need to download the files. In order to do this Click on
Desktop and then click the folder “Dayananda Sagar Website”. Press OK

47

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 5: WinHTTrack option window is opened select the scan rules

Step 6: Select all type of file to start the scan.

48

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 7: Now all the extension is added for the scan.

Step 8: Now type the URL address to scan

49

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 9: Enable the connection adjustment if needed and click the finish button.

Step 10: mirroring process is get started

50

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 11: The detail information about the URL will be fetched and saved in the folder
“Dayananda Sagar Website”. U can now open the folder where you can see the the project name
given as Website hacking as shown in Step 3.

51

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 12: Click on Website hacking file, then the URL address dayanandasagar.edu given
in the Step 8 will be visible.

52

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 13: Click on the file, dayanandasagar.edu. Now you can find all the files of the original
page of the Website will be displayed.

Step 14: Click on any file to alter the content : open with notepad.
Example: Click the file about-dsi. 3 Files are displayed. Any file can be opened in a notepad
then changes can be done in the file.

53

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Step 15: Contents of the pages is displayed. Now you can alter the Contents.

RESULT:
The main aim is to downloading a website using website copier tool (HTTtack) is
completed successfully

54

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

EXPT.NO
6(B)

TEXT STEGNOGRAPHY : HIDING THE
INFORMATION IN THE TEXT FILE USING SNOW TOOL

DATE:

AIM:
The main aim is to hide the information in the Text File Using SNOW TOOL- Text
Stenography

PROCEDURE:
1) Create a text File with some data in the same directory where SNOW Tool is installed.
2) In our Experiment Snow tool is installed in Desktop.

Figure: Text File
3) Go to the Command Prompt, Change the directory to run snow Tool

Figure: Changing the Directory
4) Type the Command:
snow -C -m “text to be hidden ” –p “password” <Source File><Destination File>

55

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

5) Example:
Snow -C -m “My Account number 1234567” –p “password123” Sample.txt Test.txt
The Source file is a Sample.txt file as shown above. Destination file will be created
automatically and exact copy of source file containing hidden information.

Figure: White Space Steganography using Snow Tool
6) Go to the Directory: You will find a new File by name Test.txt. Open the file

Figure: File Containing Hidden Encrypted Information
7) New file has the same text as an Original file (Sample.txt) without any hidden information.
This file can be sent to the target.
8) Recovering the Hidden Information :
On the Destination, the receiver can reveal information by using the command
snow –C –p “password” <Destination File>
snow –C –p “password123” test.txt

56

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Figure: Decrypting File
As shown in the above figure, file decrypted, showing hidden information encrypted in the
previous section

RESULT:
The main aim is to hide the information in the Text File Using SNOW TOOL- Text
Stegnography is completed successfully.

57

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

EXPT.NO
7(A)

ANALYZE THE PACKET CAPTURE USING
WIRESHARK TOOL(TCP)

DATE:

AIM:
Analyze the TCP packet capture using Wireshark tool.

1. Step-1: Capture the real time network traffic using Wireshark
a. Open Wireshark Application
To open the Wireshark go to the Top left corner, click on the icon to open the
list ofthe tools available.

58

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

Then type Wireshark in the search bar and click on the launch button.

59

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

b. Select the network interface
Select eth0 interface to start capturing the data and Click on this

option to

60

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

capture the N packets. This screen is shown below.

Once you click on the capture button, packet capturing will start. The packet
capturing screen is shown below.

61

CYBER SECURITY LAB MANUAL

c. Browse a Website
To open the Browser go to the Top left corner, click on the “Application”
icon toopen the list of the tools available and select the web browser.

Browse any website in the web browser. For instance www.cdac.in.

62

d. Save Network Traffic
Before saving Network traffic, stop the Wireshark packet capturing by
selecting

the symbol

In order to save the captured network packets, go to the top left corner and
click on“File” followed by “save” .

Give any name to your file . Here we have given Traffic1 which is shown below:

Now select the extension as pcap by clicking on the drop down beside the
“save as”.Choose the “wireshark/tcpdump- pcap” option and click on the
“save” button.

2. Step-2: Following TCP Stream
a. Filter tcp traffic
Analyse the TCP packets using the Filter box. Type “tcp” in the Filter box to
get allthe TCP packets.

b. Follow TCP Stream
To view the one complete three way tcp handshake connection, right click
on anygreen color traffic and select “Follow”. Choose “TCP Stream” as given

below:

one window will open. Click on the close button.

Result after using TCP stream is given below:

3. Step 3: Analyze TCP Header
a. Analyze TCP SYN Traffic
Try to observe the TCP SYN traffic captured in the Wireshark packet list pane. Type
tcp.port == 80 in the Filter box and press Enter.

Right click on the first SYN packet and select Follow and then click on TCP Stream.
Click on the Close button. The below screen will be visible.

Expand Transmission Control Protocol to view the further details and observe the
following:
● Observe the Source port. Notice that it is a dynamic port selected for this connection.
● Observe the Destination port. Notice that it should be 80.
● Observe the Sequence number. Notice that it is 0 (relative sequence number). To see
the actual sequence number, select the Sequence number to highlight the sequence
number in the bottom Wireshark bytes pane.

Expand Flags to view flag details. Observe the flag settings. Notice that SYN is
set,indicating the first segment in the TCP three-way handshake.

b. Analyze TCP SYN, ACK Traffic
Click on the SYN , ACK packet and start analyzing TCP SYN, ACK Traffic.

Expand Transmission Control Protocol to view TCP details.
● Observe the Source port. Notice that it will be 80.

●
●
●

Observe the Destination port. Notice that it is the same dynamic port selected for this
connection.
Observe the Sequence number. Notice that it is 0 (relative sequence number). To see
the actual sequence number, select Sequence number to highlight the sequence number
in the bottom Wireshark bytes pane.
Observe the Acknowledgement number. Notice that it is 1 (relative ack number). To
see the actual acknowledgement number, select Acknowledgement number to highlight
the acknowledgement number in the bottom pane. Notice that the actual
acknowledgement number is one greater than the sequence number in the previous
segment.

Expand Flags to view flag details. Observe the flag settings. Notice that SYN and
ACK areset, indicating the second segment in the TCP three-way handshake.

c. Analyze TCP ACK Traffic
Click on the ACK packet and start analyzing TCP ACK Traffic.

Expand Transmission Control Protocol to view TCP details.
● Observe the Source port. Notice that it is the same dynamic port selected for this
connection.
● Observe the Destination port. Notice that it should be 80.
● Observe the Sequence number. Notice that it is 2 (relative sequence number).
● Observe the Acknowledgement number. Notice that it is 2 (relative ack number).

Expand Flags to view flag details. Observe the flag settings. Notice that ACK is set,
indicating the third segment in the TCP teardown handshake. The client has
acknowledged the server closing the TCP connection.

d. Analyze TCP FIN ACK Traffic
Click on the FIN, ACK packet and start analyzing TCP FIN, ACK Traffic.

Expand Transmission Control Protocol to view TCP details.
● Observe the Source port. Notice that it should be 80.
● Observe the Destination port. Notice that it is the same dynamic port selected for this
connection.
● Observe the Sequence number. Notice that it is 1 (relative sequence number).
● Observe the Acknowledgement number. Notice that it is 2 (relative ack number).

Expand Flags to view flag details. Observe the flag settings. Notice that FIN and ACK
are set, indicating the second segment in the TCP three-way handshake. The server
has indicated it is closing the TCP connection with the client.

e. Analyze TCP FIN ACK Traffic
Click on the ACK packet and start analyzing TCP ACK Traffic.

Expand Transmission Control Protocol to view TCP details.
● Observe the Source port. Notice that it is the same dynamic port selected for this
connection.
● Observe the Destination port. Notice that it must be 80.
● Observe the Sequence number. Notice that it is 2 (relative sequence number).
● Observe the Acknowledgement number. Notice that it is 2 (relative ack number).

Expand Flags to view flag details. Observe the flag settings. Notice that ACK is set,
indicating the third segment in the TCP teardown handshake. The client has
acknowledged the server closing the TCP connection.

EXPT.NO
7(B)

ANALYZE THE PACKET CAPTURE USING
WIRESHARK TOOL(FTP)

DATE:

AIM:
The main aim is to analyze the packet capturing using wire shark tool.

PROCEDURE:
Wireshark is a software tool used to monitor the network traffic through a network interface. It
is the most widely used network monitoring tool today. Wireshark is loved equally by system
administrators, network engineers, network enthusiasts, network security professionals and
black hat hackers.
The basic features of Wireshark are:
Packet Monitor: This segment visually shows the packets flowing inside the network. There are
color codes for each type of packet. The packets are shown with the following information :
1. Source address
2. Destination address
3. Packet type
4. Hex dump of the packet
5. Contents of the packet in text
6. Source port(if applicable)
7. Destination port(if applicable)

Import from a capture file: This feature lets you import packets dump from a capture file to
analyse further. There are many formats supported by Wireshark, some of them are:
● pcapng
● libpcap
● Oracle snoop and atmsnoop

Export to a capture file: Wireshark lets you save the results as a capture file to continue working
on them at later point of time.

STEPS
Step 1: Start the VM and launch kali Linux.
Step 2: Search for Wireshark tool in kali Linux by clicking on the top left corner and open the
Wireshark tool.

Step 3: After the Wireshark interface is open, navigate to the files menu in the upper left corner.

Step 4: Click on the captured file to open it. This file already exists in the system.(.pcapng file)

Step 5: We are attempting to evaluate the packets transmitted over the FTP protocol. Filter the
ftp packets by entering 'ftp' into the filter box and press enter.

Step 6: You can now observe the packets being transmitted using the ftp protocol. More requests
and replies may be found as you scroll below.

Step 8: You can notice a 'login successful' packet when you scroll down to examine.

Step 9: Right-click on the packet, select Follow  TCP stream

Step 10: Now try to analyze the packet by changing the streams in the bottom left corner.

Step 11: In stream 16, we can see the attacker trying to gain the “Initial Access”. The attacker
has installed a shell.php file in the var/www/html.

Step 12: In stream 18,The reverse shell.php enables the attacker to track all of the user's online
behavior.

Step 13: In stream 20, we can see the attacker is trying to gain access to the complete console by
trying to login to ssh using the same password. This is called the ‘Privilege Escalation’.
Step 14: In stream 20, We learn that the intruder set up a backdoor so he can enter the system
whenever he wants. This is called ‘Persistence’

Summary:

RESULT:
The main aim is to analyze the packet capture using wire shark tool is completed
successfully.

EXPT.NO
8(A)

IMPLEMENTATION OF CAESAR CIPHER USING
C PROGRAM

DATE:

AIM:
To implement the simple substitution technique named Caesar cipher using C language..

PROCEDURE:
DESCRIPTION: To encrypt a message with a Caesar cipher, each letter in the message is
changed using a simple rule: shift by three. Each letter is replaced by the letter three letters
ahead in the alphabet. A becomes D, B becomes E, and so on. For the last letters, we can think of
alphabet as a circle and "wrap around". W becomes Z, X becomes A, Y becomes B, and Z
becomes C. To change a message back, each letter is replaced by the one three before it.

ALGORITHM:
STEP-1: Read the plain text from the user.
STEP-2: Read the key value from the user.
STEP-3: If the key is positive then encrypt the text by adding the key with
each character in the plain text.
STEP-4: Else subtract the key from the plain text.

STEP-5: Display the cipher text obtained above.

PROGRAM: (Caesar Cipher)

#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
#include<conio.h>
#include <ctype.h>
int main()
{
char plain[10], cipher[10];
int key,i,length;
printf("\n Enter the plain text:");
scanf("%s", plain);
printf("\n Enter the key value:");
scanf("%d", &key);
printf("\n \n \t PLAIN TEXt: %s",plain);
printf("\n \n \t ENCRYPTED TEXT: ");
for(i = 0, length = strlen(plain); i < length; i++)
{
cipher[i]=plain[i] + key;
if (isupper(plain[i]) && (cipher[i] > 'Z'))
cipher[i] = cipher[i] - 26;
if (islower(plain[i]) && (cipher[i] > 'z'))
cipher[i] = cipher[i] - 26;

printf("%c", cipher[i]);
}
printf("\n \n \t AFTER DECRYPTION : ");
for(i=0;i<length;i++)
{
plain[i]=cipher[i]-key;
if(isupper(cipher[i])&&(plain[i]<'A'))
plain[i]=plain[i]+26;
if(islower(cipher[i])&&(plain[i]<'a'))
plain[i]=plain[i]+26;
printf("%c",plain[i]);
}
getch();
}
OUTPUT:

RESULT:
The main aim is to study the detail report of cyber forensic tools is completed

EXPT.NO Write the step by step procedure for Hiding and extracting any
8(B)
Text file behind an image file using Command Prompt
AIM:
The main aim is to hide and extract any text file behind an image file using
Command Prompt.
PROCEDURE:
1. Any file like .rar .jpg .txt or any file can be merged inside another file. In a simple
way, we shall learn how to hide a text file inside an image file using the Command Prompt.
2. Suppose you have to hide a text file “A.txt” with the image file “B.jpg” and
combine them in a new file as “C.jpg”. Where “C.jpg” is our output file which contains the
text hidden in the image file.
Step1:Create a text document with the file name and .txt as an extension
Example: a.txt is created

Step2: Type the content which you need to hide in the image and save it

DATE

Step 4: Create an image file and save it with the extension .jpg
Example: b.jpg is created

Step 5: Open command prompt by selecting start icon in the task bar

Step 6: Open the command prompt a black working place will be available (or) press
ctrl+r and type cmd and hit enter.

Step 7: Move to the folder where the two are located the CD command is used to
enter in to the folder.
>>cd desktop

Step 8: Open the text file by its file name Example a.txt then txt file will get open

Step 9: Open the .jpg file by its file name Example b.jpg then the image file will get
open

Step 10: Now type the following
Syntax: copy /b Name-of-file-containing-text-you-want-to-hide.txt + Name-of-

initialimage.jpg Resulting-image-name.jpg
Code: > copy /b B.jpg + A.txt C.jpg

Step 11: locate C.jpg file from where you want to retrieve text data

Step 12: Right-click and open with notepad

Done! Successfully opened! In the last of the notepad, you’ll find the content of the
text file

RESULT:
The main aim is to hide and extract any text file behind an image file using Command Prompt is
completed successfully

